# Water-Temperature-in-the-Bay

Our dataset, titled “Water Quality Data for the Refuge”, was sourced from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Interior. We sourced our data from Data.gov. The CSV file containing our data has samples showing water quality indicators, including turbidity, pH, dissolved oxygen, salinity, and temperature. This data was collected from multiple water bodies in the Back Bay National Wildlife Refuge in Virginia Beach, Virginia. These bodies of water included the Bay, D-Pool, C-Pool, B-Pool, and A-Pool. Volunteers conducted bi-weekly sampling over three decades, spanning from 1989 to 2019.
Our population was the measurements of water temperature from the bay between 1989 and 2019 in September through May. Using Python, we filtered out observations with missing data and removed outliers using the IQR method, we reduced the dataset from 2372 to a population size of N=514. 
The variable of interest in our study is water temperature (measured in °C). The dates when the water temperature data was collected constitute the sampling units. The population mean (μ) of water temperature was calculated as 14.227°C. To estimate this parameter, we determined an optimal sample size of n=85, with an α-level of 0.05. 
	Throughout this dataset, we asked the question “What is the true mean of water temperature in the Bay from 1989 to 2019 during the months of September through May?”. The goal of our study is to estimate the true mean water temperature in the Bay during the months of September through May. Our aim is to understand ecological patterns and support climate research and marine conservation. We understand that water temperature is crucial for several ecological and environmental concerns so we knew it was important to look into water temperature. Water temperature significantly influences fish spawning cycles and the flora and fauna in the Bay, so we knew our findings would be important to maintaining the health of a marine ecosystem. Although we didn’t study how the average water temperature in the Bay has changed over time, our findings could also be important in monitoring climate change. Historical water temperature data provides valuable insights into long-term climate trends and informs policy-making for mitigation and adaptation strategies.
